memory-bank/systemPatterns.md, before:

# System Patterns: Scopa Trainer

## Architecture Overview

The Scopa Trainer is implemented as a client-side browser application with a modular, event-driven architecture based on the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Main[Main Module] --> Controller
    
    subgraph Model Layer
        Model[Model Module] --> GameState[Game State]
        Model --> GameLogic[Game Logic]
        Model --> AIEngine[AI Engine]
        Model --> AnalysisEngine[Analysis Engine]
    end
    
    subgraph Controller Layer
        Controller[Controller Module] --> UIHandlers[Event Handlers]
        Controller --> Rendering[Rendering Logic]
    end
    
    Controller <--> Model
    
    subgraph View Layer
        HTML[HTML/CSS] <--> DOM[DOM Elements]
    end
    
    Controller <--> DOM
    
    %% Future extension
    GameState -.-> LocalStorage[LocalStorage]
```

## Key Design Patterns

### Game State Management
- **Centralized State**: A single `gameState` object tracks all aspects of the game
- **Immutable Snapshots**: State history is preserved for move analysis and replay
- **Event-Driven Updates**: UI responds to state changes rather than directly modifying visuals

### Rendering System
- **Component-Based Rendering**: Game board, cards, hands, and controls are modular
- **Visual Feedback Pattern**: Selected cards have visual indicators
- **Declarative Updates**: UI renders from state rather than imperative mutations

### AI Implementation
- **Strategic Prioritization**: AI uses a priority-based decision system rather than pure minimax
- **Non-Deterministic Play**: Some randomness to prevent predictable patterns
- **Transparent Reasoning**: AI explains its move rationale for learning purposes

### Analysis Engine
- **Move Classification**: Player moves categorized into optimal, good, mediocre, or bad
- **Comparative Analysis**: Player moves compared against optimal AI recommendations
- **Progressive Disclosure**: Analysis shown post-game with interactive navigation

## Data Structures

### Core Game Objects
- **Card**: `{suit: string, value: number, id: string}`
- **Deck**: Array of Card objects
- **Player Hand**: Array of Card objects
- **Table**: Array of Card objects
- **Captures**: Array of Card objects per player

### Game State
```javascript
{
    deck: Card[],
    table: Card[],
    playerHand: Card[],
    aiHand: Card[],
    playerCaptures: Card[],
    aiCaptures: Card[],
    playerScopaCount: number,
    aiScopaCount: number,
    playerScore: number,
    aiScore: number,
    selectedCard: Card | null,
    selectedTableCards: Card[],
    currentTurn: 'player' | 'ai',
    gameOver: boolean,
    moveCount: number
}
```

### Move Analysis Record
```javascript
{
    moveNumber: number,
    card: Card,
    action: 'capture' | 'discard',
    capturedCards: Card[],
    allPossibleCaptures: Card[][],
    tableState: Card[],
    playerHand: Card[],
    wasOptimal: boolean,
    rating: 'good' | 'mediocre' | 'bad',
    reason: string,
    aiRecommendation: {
        card: Card,
        tableCards: Card[],
        reasoning: string,
        priority: string
    }
}
```

## Core Algorithms

### Card Capture Logic
- **Direct Matching**: Card equals a single table card value
- **Combination Capture**: Card value equals sum of multiple table cards
- **Combinatorial Search**: Find all possible valid capture combinations

### AI Decision Making
1. Check for Scopa opportunities (clear the table)
2. Prioritize capturing high-value cards (7 of coins)
3. Look for opportunities to capture multiple cards
4. Make strategic discards to minimize opponent capture opportunities

Commit message:

First attempt at separating the AI logic in its own module

memory-bank/systemPatterns.md, after:

# System Patterns: Scopa Trainer

## Architecture Overview

The Scopa Trainer is implemented as a client-side browser application with a modular, event-driven architecture based on the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    Main[Main Module] --> Controller
    
    subgraph Model Layer
        Model[Model Module] --> GameState[Game State]
        Model --> GameLogic[Game Logic]
        Model --> AnalysisEngine[Analysis Engine]
    end
    
    subgraph Controller Layer
        Controller[Controller Module] --> UIHandlers[Event Handlers]
        Controller --> Rendering[Rendering Logic]
        Controller --> AI[AI Module]
    end
    
    Controller <--> Model
    
    subgraph View Layer
        HTML[HTML/CSS] <--> DOM[DOM Elements]
    end
    
    Controller <--> DOM
    
    %% Future extension
    GameState -.-> LocalStorage[LocalStorage]
```

## Key Design Patterns

### Game State Management
- **Centralized State**: A single `gameState` object tracks all aspects of the game
- **Immutable Snapshots**: State history is preserved for move analysis and replay
- **Event-Driven Updates**: UI responds to state changes rather than directly modifying visuals

### Rendering System
- **Component-Based Rendering**: Game board, cards, hands, and controls are modular
- **Visual Feedback Pattern**: Selected cards have visual indicators
- **Declarative Updates**: UI renders from state rather than imperative mutations

### AI Implementation
- **Pure Function Pattern**: AI is implemented as a module with pure functions that receive only the information an AI player would know
- **Strategic Prioritization**: AI uses a priority-based decision system
- **Non-Deterministic Play**: Some randomness to prevent predictable patterns
- **Transparent Reasoning**: AI explains its move rationale for learning purposes

### Analysis Engine
- **Move Classification**: Player moves categorized into optimal, good, mediocre, or bad
- **Comparative Analysis**: Player moves compared against optimal AI recommendations
- **Progressive Disclosure**: Analysis shown post-game with interactive navigation

## Data Structures

### Core Game Objects
- **Card**: `{suit: string, value: number, id: string}`
- **Deck**: Array of Card objects
- **Player Hand**: Array of Card objects
- **Table**: Array of Card objects
- **Captures**: Array of Card objects per player

### Game State
```javascript
{
    deck: Card[],
    table: Card[],
    playerHand: Card[],
    aiHand: Card[],
    playerCaptures: Card[],
    aiCaptures: Card[],
    playerScopaCount: number,
    aiScopaCount: number,
    playerScore: number,
    aiScore: number,
    selectedCard: Card | null,
    selectedTableCards: Card[],
    currentTurn: 'player' | 'ai',
    gameOver: boolean,
    moveCount: number
}
```

### AI Game State
```javascript
{
    tableCards: Card[],              // Cards visible to all players
    handCards: Card[],               // Cards in AI's hand
    captureCards: Card[],            // Cards AI has captured
    opponentCaptureCards: Card[],    // Cards opponent has captured 
    outstandingCards: Card[]         // Cards not visible (in deck or opponent's hand)
}
```

### Move Analysis Record
```javascript
{
    moveNumber: number,
    card: Card,
    action: 'capture' | 'discard',
    capturedCards: Card[],
    allPossibleCaptures: Card[][],
    tableState: Card[],
    playerHand: Card[],
    wasOptimal: boolean,
    rating: 'good' | 'mediocre' | 'bad',
    reason: string,
    aiRecommendation: {
        card: Card,
        tableCards: Card[],
        reasoning: string,
        priority: string
    }
}
```

## Core Algorithms

### Card Capture Logic
- **Direct Matching**: Card equals a single table card value
- **Combination Capture**: Card value equals sum of multiple table cards
- **Combinatorial Search**: Find all possible valid capture combinations
- **Legal Moves System**: Centralized validation of all possible legal moves

### Move Validation
- **Unified Legal Moves**: A central `findAllLegalMoves` function determines all valid moves
- **Rule Enforcement**: Special rules like prioritizing direct matches are enforced consistently
- **Move Generation**: Both capture and discard moves are generated based on current game state

### AI Decision Making
1. Model provides AI's limited view of the game state (only what it would know)
2. Model provides all legal moves to the AI module
3. AI pure function processes the legal moves with the limited game state:
   - Check for Scopa opportunities (clear the table)
   - Prioritize capturing high-value cards (7 of coins)
   - Look for opportunities to capture multiple cards
4. AI returns the chosen move and rationale without modifying any state
5. Controller takes the AI's decision and executes the chosen move through the model
